# 计组测试卷1A

## Select any 5 of the following concepts and explain them briefly. (30pts)

### ﻿﻿﻿Computer Architecture  

Architecture is those attributes visible to the programmer.

### ﻿﻿﻿Computer Function

Function is the operation of individual components as part of the structure.

### ﻿﻿﻿Interrupt concept

Mechanism by which other modules may interrupt normal processing of processor.

### ﻿﻿﻿Key concepts of von Neumann computer

Data and instruction are stored in a single read-write memory, Memory are addressable, ALU operating on binary data, Control unit interpreting instructions from memory and executing, Input and output equipment operated by control unit(前两项必须，共列出3项即可)

### ﻿﻿﻿Direct access method (of four memory access method)

Individual blocks have unique address. Access is by jumping to vicinity plus sequential search. Access time depends on data location and previous location.

### ﻿﻿﻿Locality of reference

During the course of the execution of a program, memory references tend to cluster.

### ﻿﻿﻿Memory mapped I/O addressing mode

Devices and memory share an address space. 1/O looks just like memory readiwrite. No special commands for I/O.

### ﻿﻿﻿Data bus width

Data bus width means bits to be transferred at a time. It's a key determinant of computer performance.

## Select any 4 of the following questions and answer them briefs. (4Opts)

### Describe the operations of interrupt Cycle.  

**Answer:**
- Current PC saved to allow resumption after interrupt.  
- Contents of PC copied to MBR.
- Special memory location loaded to MAR.
- MBR written to memory.  
- PC loaded with address of interrupt handling routine.
- Next instruction (first of interrupt handler) can be fetched.

### ﻿﻿﻿Describe memory write process with detailed steps.  

**Answer:** CPU issues the address of target location/memory cell onto address bus. The content to be written will be posted onto data bus. CPU sends memory-write control signal to perform writing.

### ﻿﻿﻿Depict the I/O read process with programmed I/O technique.  

**Answer:**
- CPU requests I/O operation.
- I/O module performs operation.
- I/O module sets status bits.
- CPU checks status bits periodically.
- I/O module does not inform CPU directly. I/O module does not interrupt CPU.
- CPU may wait or come back later.
   
### ﻿﻿﻿Depict the I/O read process with DMA technique.

**Answer:**
- CPU tells DMA controller: Read/Write. Device address, Starting address of memory block for data. Amount of data to be transferred.
- CPU carries on with other work.
- DMA controller deals with the whole transfer.
- DMA controller sends interrupt when finished.

### Draw the process state transition diagram and explain short term scheduling.

**Answer:** omitted
